.\" Copyright (c) Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS,
.\" France). 2010. 
.\" Copyright (c) Members of the EGEE Collaboration. 2008-2010. See 
.\" http://www.eu-egee.org/partners/ for details on the copyright
.\" holders.  
.\" 
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); 
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. 
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at 
.\" 
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 
.\" 
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software 
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, 
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. 
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and 
.\" limitations under the License.

.TH ipv6_care 8 "December 13, 2011" "GNU/Linux"

.\" disable hyphenation
.ad l

.SH NAME
ipv6_care \- IPv6 compliance toolbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipv6_care
check [-v] <program_command_line>		# -> check mode
.br
.B ipv6_care
sh[ell] [-v]						# -> shell
.br
.B ipv6_care
patch <program_command_line>			# -> patch mode
.br
.B ipv6_care
system patch						# -> toggle patch mode for all next programs started (DANGEROUS if you restart the operating system!)
.br
.B ipv6_care
binary lookup <path_to_binary>		# -> self-diagnosis

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B IPv6 CARE 
(\fBIPv6 C\fRompliance \fBA\fRutomatic \fBR\fRuntime \fBE\fRnvironment) is a toolbox easing IPv6 compliance diagnosis and migration of applications.
.PP
It is able to correct the behavior of applications in order to make them IPv6 compliant ('patch' mode). Alternatively the tool can generate a detailed diagnosis about the IPv6 compliance of an application ('check' mode).
It works by monitoring processes and detecting or patching the function calls related to IPv4 and IPv6 sockets. 
.PP
.B IPv6 CARE
is using an \fBLD_PRELOAD\fR-based mechanism (see \fBld.so\fR(8)) in order to trap these function calls.
.PP
One of the following commands must be specified as the first parameter:
.PP
- \fBcheck\fR:
Run the specified program and diagnose its IPv6 compliance. 
.PP
- \fBshell\fR:
Enter a bash shell where all processes started will be checked.
.PP
- \fBpatch\fR:
Run the specified program and patch it in order to make it IPv6 compliant.
.PP
- \fBsystem patch\fR:
Toggle the patch mode for all programs started from now on. (This setting WILL persist afer a system restart and, consequently, will modify the behavior of all services run at startup. Use this with extreme caution: don't try that on a production machine unless you fully trust this software! Or carefully test it on a test-machine with similar setup beforehand.) Re-run this command to disable.
.PP
- \fBbinary lookup\fR:
Check if the tool will work with the specified binary, and, if not, describe why. This is useful if IPv6 CARE seems not to work with a given program.


.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP -v 
(in check mode)
This option will cause
.B IPv6 CARE
to display the function calls detected on standard output.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B ipv6_care check -v 
telnet www.google.fr 80
.br
This will start the specified command '\fBtelnet www.google.fr 80\fR', report the detected function calls, and generate a diagnosis in a subdirectory of /tmp/ipv6_diagnosis, as specified at the end of the tool's output.

.PP
.B ipv6_care shell
.br
This will start a bash session where IPv6 compliance of all started processes will be analysed.

.PP
(as root@my_v6only_mysql_server)
.br
.B ipv6_care patch
service mysql start
.br
(as user@client)
.br
.B ipv6_care patch
mysql -h my_v6only_mysql_server -p
.br
This will start the mysql service and client and patch them in order to make them IPv6 compliant.

.PP
(as root)
.br
.B ipv6_care system patch
; init 6
.br
This applies the patch mode and restarts the machine, which means that the patch mode will be applied to ALL programs launched at start up. This is DANGEROUS!

.PP
.B ipv6_care binary lookup 
/usr/bin/telnet
.br
This will tell you if the \fBLD_PRELOAD\fR-based mechanism which 
.B IPv6 CARE
uses is expected to work with the binary '\fB/usr/bin/telnet\fR'.


.SH NOTES
For more information please consult http://sourceforge.net/projects/ipv6-care or email to etienne.duble _at_ imag.fr.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to etienne.duble _at_ imag.fr.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBipv6\fR(7), \fBld.so\fR(8)

